
### Jun' 11

#### ***Hypothesis :  
 
 *For ansatz of the form $H_{ev} = (1- \gamma) H_{prob} + \gamma H_{mix}$, tuning the $\gamma$ allows for the variation in the relative weight of the evolution between the two hamiltonians.

  *We expect better results in sampling from a distribution generated by the Hamiltonian $H_{prob}$  by broadly two different approaches,

   1. *Choosing the $H_{mix}$ specifically to respect the symmetries present in the $H_{prob}$
   2. *And then fine tuning the relative weight $\gamma$ to enhance the sampling procedure

*Intuitively we expect that a specifically designed $H_{mix}$ would generate samples that are more representative of the typical set of the probability distribution corresponding to $H_{prob}$. 

*However restricting the sample space considerably might substantially reduce the search space which we can get over by fine-tuning $\gamma$ over the range of the simulation.
The paper suggests that the for perturbative values of $\gamma$ we should have the probability of transitions is given by, 
$\mathcal{P}(s \to s') \: \propto \;\: \frac{\gamma^2}{(E_{s}-E_{s'})^2} \: \bra{s}H_{mix}\ket{s'} $
but similar analysis for different ranges of $\gamma$ is not known.

*We strongly believe that even for other ranges the transition probability depends significantly on the structure of $H_{mix}$, and thus suitably finding one would enhance the capability of your sampling scheme.


#### ***Experiments :

1.  **Confirming effect of $\gamma$ variation without enhanced (informed ?) $H_{mix}$ design.
	1. Take the usual $H^{v}_{mix} = \sum_{i=0}^{n} X_{i}$, (aka. *vanilla mixer* ) and obtain sampling results for a generic Random Ising Model hamiltonian.
	2. Average the effect over different instance of the randomly generated ising models.
	3. Run the simulations for different ranges of gamma, $\gamma_{perturbative} \approx \{0.01\}$, $\gamma_{low} \approx \{0.1,0.2\}$,  $\gamma_{mid} \approx \{0.5,0.6\}$ , $\gamma_{high} \approx \{0.8,0.9\}$ 
       
       **To observe :**  
       At high $\gamma$ the sampling algorithm will loose track of the information of the landscape it is supposed to sample. Aim to get an idea about the mid $\gamma$ range in which, we still manage to get good samples, or an upper bound such that an $\gamma > \gamma_{max}$ will fail to produce good samples. 
	
2. **Confirming the effect of enhanced $H_{mix}$ design, for Random Ising Models, with $\gamma$ variation.
	1. Design $H_{mix}$ from the set of multi qubit interactions i.e $\{ X_{i}X_{i+1}, X_{i}X_{i+1}X_{i+1}, X_{i}X_{j},\}$. Restrict design to $X$  mixers only, for better interpretebilty.
	2. Check the sampling results for the choice of enhanced mixers against their pauli weight  
	3. Rerun the simulations for different ranges of gamma, $\gamma_{perturbative} \approx \{0.01\}$, $\gamma_{low} \approx \{0.1,0.2\}$,  $\gamma_{mid} \approx \{0.5,0.6\}$ , $\gamma_{high} \approx \{0.8,0.9\}$ 

		**To observe :** 
		Using $H_{mix}$ of different pauli weight allows for transitions of higher hamming distance $d_{h}$, though this would allow for transversal of local minima this does not directly guarantee a better sampling of the the energy landscape because the algorithm would fail to make small transitions when required thus bypassing the ground states.
		
		We need to find a strategy of picking the right $H_{mix}$ (or a scheme of varying it over iterations ) combined with the information about the mid $\gamma$ range from the previous experiment this will let us balance between the different types of transitions to drive the sampling algorithm more accurately through the landscape.   
	 
3.  **Confirming the effect of enhanced $H_{mix}$ design, for structured datasets, with $\gamma$ variation.
	1.  Get an close approximation of the ideal Hamiltonian $H_{D}$ for the dataset $D$, by some means (?).
	2. Design $H_{mix}$ such that it enhances transitions $\ket{s} \to \ket{s'}$, such that $\{\ket{s}, \ket{s'}\}\; \in D$ , over other transitions.      
	3. Compare the sampling, by using $H_{D}$ as the problem hamiltonian and comparing the effect of using an enhanced $H_{mix}$ over using *vanilla* mixer $H^{v}_{mix}$ .  


   
 

